updates for upcoming release (#4492)
ElektraInitiative/libelektra: doc/contrib/documentation.md

  "We" refers to the community around the Elektra Initiative.
- Use headings and lists to keep a clear structure in the text.
- Use examples and images to emphasize important points, don't overuse emphasis in text (bold, etc.).
- Spelling is American English with [spellings as defined here](/scripts/sed).
- It is consistent with our [terminology](/doc/help/elektra-glossary.md).

> Note:
> Please extend [terminology](/doc/help/elektra-glossary.md) and [spellings](/scripts/sed) as needed.

## Completeness

In general the documentation does not need to be complete.
In particular, we do not want repetition of implementation details as documentation.
[Prefer to write self-documenting code](/doc/CODING.md).
Nevertheless, there are a few must-haves:

- A README.md must be available for every module.
- A man page (help/kdb-) must be available for every command (including external commands).
- A tutorial must be present for every important concept.
- Every documentation page must be listed in the [Website's structure](/src/tools/website/resources/structure.json.in).
- Everything copied must be properly licensed in [reuse](/.reuse/dep5).

## Links

> Generously use links but be very careful to create a red line through the documentation:

Reviewer: I'm not 100% sure, but I think the phrase "red line/red thread" is a Germanism and probably not so well known outside of the German community?
```suggestion
Generously use links but be very careful to create a coherent documentation:
```

# Documentation

This document gives guidelines for contributors concerning Elektra's documentation.
This document takes preference to the actual situation, so if you see documentation
not according to this document, please [create an issue](https://issue.libelektra.org)

> or directly fix it with your next PR.

Reviewer 2: I prefer writing docs with one sentence per line and using the line wrap feature of my editor. For the rendered results it doesn't matter, but with one sentence per line future git diffs are simpler. There is no noisy diff, because the line wrapping changed. It also makes Code Review suggestions on GitHub easier.

If we want documentation written that way, we should probably mention it in this file.

Author: Yes, I agree and fixed the document but for different reasons. I actually think diffs tend to be better with more line breaks (line wrapping is rarely changed by anyone). But: using single lines per sentences make the sentence length better visible and so can lead to shorter and better to read sentences, and this is a more important goal than nice diffs and may avoid sentences like this one.

> Note: It is always allowed to improve the documentation, in every PR, even if

> > the documentation fix is completely unrelated.

Reviewer 2: Maybe mention that a separate PR should still be prefer over adding a docs fix to a large and/or long-lived PR to ensure it is merged faster.

## Target Groups

We write documentation for three groups:

- User:

>   Is a person who uses some tool of Elektra, e.g. `kdb`, Qt-Gui or Web-UI.

Reviewer 2: If think this can be broader. Using a tool should not be required. I'd also say using any application which is built with Elektra is enough. For example, even if I don't use `kdb` and instead edit a config file of such an application, I need to know a bit about how Elektra works (keys, etc.)

Author: Especially you should know not to directly edit config files but to use `kdb editor` instead :wink:

- Developer:
  Is a person who uses some library of Elektra within an application, tool or plugin.
- Contributor
  Is a person who does changes within Elektra's repository.

There are 3 separate folders for these 3 groups:

- [for users](/doc/help)
- [for developers](/doc/dev)
- [for contributors](/doc/contrib)

> Takeaway:
> Every document must have a clear target group (user, developer or contributor).
> Sometimes it is clear from the directory sometimes it must be explicitly stated,

> > e.g. tutorials.

Reviewer 2: Why not create separate folders for tutorials too?

Beyond that a tutorial should probably state it's target audience as a sub-group of the 3 main groups, e.g. "Developers who want to write a backend plugin".

Author: For tutorials we already have a quite nice structure (even finer than 3 target groups):
https://www.libelektra.org/tutorials/readme
I wouldn't change what already works.

## Orientation

Each documentation should clearly be oriented to one of these 3 directions:

1. learning-oriented: first introduction is done via tutorials, it teaches the basics.
2. information-oriented: the README.md and API docs together are the references: they cover everything that someone needs to know about a [module](/doc/help/elektra-glossary.md).
3. understanding-oriented: the [doc/decisions](/doc/decisions) explain the "Why?" something is done as it is done (Rationale).

In literature there is also goal-oriented but we prefer learning-oriented approaches.
E.g. of course you might have the goal to write a new plugin.
But why not also learn about plugins while creating a new plugin?

> Takeaway:
> Don't try to combine different orientations in one document,

> > instead spit your documentation up in e.g. a README.md (information),

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> instead split your documentation up in e.g. a README.md (information),
```

> tutorial (learning),
> decisions (understanding).

## Criteria

Elektra's documentation must fulfill:

- It is self-contained.
  It is not enough to link to some paper and an external page to explain, e.g., decisions.

>   All explanation must be within the repo, e.g., in case the external information goes away.

Reviewer 2: Should mention that linking to external sources for further details is fine, as long as our docs explain enough that everything is clear if the external source goes away.

An exception might also if the external source is authoritative. For example I'd say `toml` should link to  https://toml.io/en/v1.0.0 and state something like "We follow the spec with these exceptions: ...". It would be useless to copy the entire spec into our docs. That would just mean people need to read both versions to find potential differences.
